I grew up in a country where people judged you according to the colour of your skin.
There was black, white, mixed race, but we all kept separate.
I needed to learn not to see colour but to see people.
Even though it's such a multicultural area, there is still this prejudice that exists.
I've seen a witness times where ones from another country are often left isolated or are treated in a way that they're not welcome here.
If we're not careful, these attitudes could creep into the congregation.
We could have isolated groups of cultures that maybe would stick together.
In the area where I grew up, young ones show great respect for older ones.
Older ones, however, do not give much importance to young people.
This attitude or culture has a major impact on recommendations of young ones, as elders in the congregation.
We might say, in my opinion, is too young to be appointed as an elder in the congregation.
In this area, people sort of open up to you when you are to your age.
In some areas, they would even wonder what you are doing there if you don't have the right kind of looks.
In terms of what you can afford to wear, what kind of car you can afford to drive.
What your profession is.
If we brought that with us into the Christian congregation, then what Solomon mentions,
it could be the case that we actively seek the friendship of those that we regard to be rich and abandon those that are poor.
I like the example in Galatians with Peter.
He grew up in an area where there was a lot of prejudice.
It wasn't something that he overcame straight away.
If I'm not careful, I think it would be easy for me to slide back to see people as a different race,
and that would affect the way I view my brothers and sisters in the congregation.
The article mentions that when we use the Bible, it helps us to make changes.
We need to constantly look at ourselves so that we can continue to make progress.
In the article we mentioned about opening our hearts wide,
whether it be working with them on the ministry, having them over socially,
not just from the same group that we might be comfortable with,
but actually with different ones from different backgrounds.
Timothy was still a young man,
and the Apostle Paul had given him heavy responsibility in the congregation.
The article mentions that the Scriptures do not give an exact age for recommendation of brothers as ministerial servants or elders.
Recommending a younger brother as an elder in the congregation has been a great blessing to us.
In the article, there was a little phrase that has become a guiding principle for me.
Jehovah does not judge our relationship with him by what we possess.
So when I meet new brothers and sisters, and for a moment,
I'm tempted to judge or view them according to those sentiments,
as to whether they are rich or poor, that principle comes into my mind,
my focus therefore shifts to who they really are in terms of their devotion to Jehovah.
Their faith, that is what we build friendships are.
I have friends from different cultures, different races,
and I don't see them as colour, but I see my brother and my sister.
I've got the most amazing friendships with ones from different backgrounds and cultures,
something I would always, always cherish.
So our congregation is a wonderful place for everybody.
There's no emphasis on who is rich and who is poor.
Friendship I build on the basis of our love for Jehovah.